Add blog post about LoRa fine-tuning for sequence classification (#1595)
huggingface/blog: Lora-for-sequence-classification-with-Roberta-Llama-Mistral.md

---
title: "Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, Llama 2, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with Lora" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/Lora-for-sequence-classification-with-Roberta-Llama-Mistral/Thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: mehdiiraqui 
  guest: true
---

# Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, Llama 2, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with Lora
<!-- TOC -->

> - [Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, Llama 2, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with Lora](#comparing-the-performance-of-llms-a-deep-dive-into-roberta-llama-2-and-mistral-for-disaster-tweets-analysis-with-lora)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, Llama 2, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with LoRA](#comparing-the-performance-of-llms-a-deep-dive-into-roberta-llama-2-and-mistral-for-disaster-tweets-analysis-with-lora)
```

> - [Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, Llama 2, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with Lora](#comparing-the-performance-of-llms-a-deep-dive-into-roberta-llama-2-and-mistral-for-disaster-tweets-analysis-with-lora)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, LLaMa 2, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with Lora](#comparing-the-performance-of-llms-a-deep-dive-into-roberta-llama-2-and-mistral-for-disaster-tweets-analysis-with-lora)
```

    - [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Hardware Used](#hardware-used)
    - [Goals](#goals)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Pre-trained Models](#pre-trained-models)
        - [RoBERTa](#roberta)
        - [LLaMA 2](#llama-2)
        - [Mistral 7B](#mistral-7b)
    - [LoRA](#lora)
    - [Setup](#setup)
    - [Data preparation](#data-preparation)
        - [Data loading](#data-loading)
        - [Data Processing](#data-processing)
    - [Models](#models)
        - [RoBERTa](#roberta)
            - [Load RoBERTA Checkpoints for the Classification Task](#load-roberta-checkpoints-for-the-classification-task)

>             - [LoRa setup for RoBERTa classifier](#lora-setup-for-roberta-classifier)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - [LoRA setup for RoBERTa classifier](#lora-setup-for-roberta-classifier)
```

        - [Mistral](#mistral)
            - [Load checkpoints for the classfication model](#load-checkpoints-for-the-classfication-model)

>             - [LoRa setup for Mistral 7B classifier](#lora-setup-for-mistral-7b-classifier)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - [LoRA setup for Mistral 7B classifier](#lora-setup-for-mistral-7b-classifier)
```

>         - [Llama 2](#llama-2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [LLaMa 2](#llama-2)
```

>             - [Load checkpoints for the classfication mode](#load-checkpoints-for-the-classfication-mode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - [Load checkpoints for the classification mode](#load-checkpoints-for-the-classfication-mode)
```

>             - [LoRa setup for Llama 2 classifier](#lora-setup-for-llama-2-classifier)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - [LoRA setup for LLaMa 2 classifier](#lora-setup-for-llama-2-classifier)
```

    - [Setup the trainer](#setup-the-trainer)
        - [Evaluation Metrics](#evaluation-metrics)
        - [Custom Trainer for Weighted Loss](#custom-trainer-for-weighted-loss)
        - [Trainer Setup](#trainer-setup)
            - [RoBERTa](#roberta)
            - [Mistral-7B](#mistral-7b)

>             - [Llama 2](#llama-2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            - [LLaMa 2](#llama-2)
```

    - [Hyperparameter Tuning](#hyperparameter-tuning)
    - [Results](#results)
    - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
    - [Resources](#resources)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Introduction 

In the fast-moving world of Natural Language Processing (NLP), we often find ourselves comparing different language models to see which one works best for specific tasks. This blog post is all about comparing three models: RoBERTa, Mistral-7b, and Llama-2-7b. We used them to tackle a common problem - classifying tweets about disasters. It is important to note that Mistral and Llama 2 are large models with 7 billion parameters. In contrast, RoBERTa-large (355M parameters) is a relatively smaller model used as a baseline for the comparison study.

In this blog, we used PEFT (Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning) technique: LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models) for fine-tuning the pre-trained model on the sequence classification task. LoRa is designed to significantly reduce the number of trainable parameters while maintaining strong downstream task performance. 

> The main objective of this blogpost is to implement LoRA fine-tuning for sequence classification task using three pre-trained models from Hugging Face: [meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf), [mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1), and [roberta-large](https://huggingface.co/roberta-large)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main objective of this blog post is to implement LoRA fine-tuning for sequence classification tasks using three pre-trained models from Hugging Face: [meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf), [mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1), and [roberta-large](https://huggingface.co/roberta-large)
```

## Hardware Used 

- Number of nodes: 1 
- Number of GPUs per node: 1
- GPU type: A6000 
- GPU memory: 48GB

## Goals

- Implement fine-tuning of pre-trained LLMs using LoRA PEFT methods.
- Learn how to use the HuggingFace APIs ([transformers](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index), [peft](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/index), and [datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/index)).
- Setup the hyperparameter tuning and experiment logging using [Weights & Biases](https://wandb.ai).

## Dependencies

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

![image](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/Lora-for-sequence-classification-with-Roberta-Llama-Mistral/lora.png)

## Setup

RoBERTa has a limitatiom of maximum sequence length of 512, so we set the `MAX_LEN=512` for all models to ensure a fair comparison.

```python
MAX_LEN = 512 
roberta_checkpoint = "roberta-large"
mistral_checkpoint = "mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1"
llama_checkpoint = "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf"
```

## Data preparation
### Data loading

We will load the dataset from Hugging Face:
```python
from datasets import load_dataset
dataset = load_dataset("mehdiiraqui/twitter_disaster")
```
 Now, let's split the dataset into training and validation datasets. Then add the test set:

```python
from datasets import Dataset
# Split the dataset into training and validation datasets
data = dataset['train'].train_test_split(train_size=0.8, seed=42)
# Rename the default "test" split to "validation"
data['val'] = data.pop("test")
# Convert the test dataframe to HuggingFace dataset and add it into the first dataset
data['test'] = dataset['test']
```

Here's an overview of the dataset:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

We start by defining the RoBERTa dataloader: 

-  Load the tokenizer: 
```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer
roberta_tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(roberta_checkpoint, add_prefix_space=True)
```
**Note:** The RoBERTa tokenizer has been trained to treat spaces as part of the token. As a result, the first word of the sentence is encoded differently if it is not preceded by a white space. To ensure the first word includes a space, we set `add_prefix_space=True`. Also, to maintain consistent pre-processing for all three models, we set the parameter to 'True' for Llama 2 and Mistral 7b.

- Define the preprocessing function for converting one row of the dataframe:
```python
def roberta_preprocessing_function(examples):
    return roberta_tokenizer(examples['text'], truncation=True, max_length=MAX_LEN)
```

> By applying the preprocessing function to the first example of our training dataset, we can see that we have inputs ids and an attention mask:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By applying the preprocessing function to the first example of our training dataset, we have the tokenized inputs (`input_ids`) and the attention mask:
```

from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification 
roberta_model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(roberta_checkpoint, num_labels=2)
```

####  LoRA setup for RoBERTa classifier

We import LoRa configuration and set some parameters for RoBERTa classifier:
- TaskType: Sequence classification
- r(rank): Rank for our decomposition matrices
- lora_alpha: Alpha parameter to scale the learned weights. LoRA paper advises fixing alpha at 16
- lora_dropout: Dropout probability of the LoRA layers
- bias: Whether to add bias term to LoRa layers

The code below uses the values recommended by the [Lora paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685). [Later in this post](#hyperparameter-tuning) we will perform hyperparameter tuning of these parameters using `wandb`.

```python
from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
roberta_peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS, r=2, lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0.1, bias="none",
)
roberta_model = get_peft_model(roberta_model, roberta_peft_config)
roberta_model.print_trainable_parameters()
```

We can see that the number of trainable parameters represents only 0.64% of the RoBERTa model parameters:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

In this blog, we used PEFT (Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning) technique: LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models) for fine-tuning the pre-trained model on the sequence classification task. LoRa is designed to significantly reduce the number of trainable parameters while maintaining strong downstream task performance. 

The main objective of this blogpost is to implement LoRA fine-tuning for sequence classification task using three pre-trained models from Hugging Face: [meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf), [mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1), and [roberta-large](https://huggingface.co/roberta-large)

## Hardware Used 

- Number of nodes: 1 

> - Number of GPUs per node: 2

Reviewer 2: Are we using the 2 nodes? It looks like each training job fits fine in just one card, is that correct?

Author: I am using a local workstation with 2 GPUs, so it's one node with 2 GPUs

Reviewer 2: Sorry I meant the GPUs 🤦 If only one is required I wouldn't mention we are using 2, so more people can be encouraged to try this out. One of the advantages of LoRA is that it doesn't require as many resources as regular fine-tuning.

Author: I run a test with 1 GPU and was able to run all the 3 models successfully. I changed the number of GPUs to 1.

- Grouped-query Attention: used in Llama 2 as well, the technique optimizes the inference process (reduce processing time) by caching the key and value vectors for previously decoded tokens in the sequence.  

## [LoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685)

PEFT, Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning, is a collection of techniques (p-tuning, prefix-tuning, IA3, Adapters, and LoRa) designed to fine-tune large models using a much smalled set of training parameters while preserving the performance levels typically achieved through full fine-tuning. 

LoRA, Low-Rank Adaptation, is a PEFT method that shares similarities with Adapter layers. However, its primary objective is to reduce the model's trainable parameters. LoRA's operation involves the alteration of the training and updating of the modifiable parameters within the neural network. 

> ![image](lora.png)

Author: I have created a PR :https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/203
Seems still open.

> ![image](lora.png)

Reviewer 2: Merged. You need to use this URL:

![LoRA diagram](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/Lora-for-sequence-classification-with-Roberta-Llama-Mistral/lora.png).

 4   target    7613 non-null   int64 
dtypes: int64(2), object(3)
memory usage: 297.5+ KB
```

- Test dataset
```
<class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
RangeIndex: 3263 entries, 0 to 3262
Data columns (total 5 columns):
 #   Column    Non-Null Count  Dtype 
---  ------    --------------  ----- 
 0   id        3263 non-null   int64 
 1   keyword   3237 non-null   object
 2   location  2158 non-null   object
 3   text      3263 non-null   object
 4   target    3263 non-null   int64 
dtypes: int64(2), object(3)
memory usage: 127.6+ KB
```

**Target distribution in the train dataset**
```
target
0    4342
1    3271
Name: count, dtype: int64
```

As the classes are not balanced, we will compute the positive and negative weights and use them for loss calculation later:
```python
pos_weights = len(data['train'].to_pandas()) / (2 * data['train'].to_pandas().target.value_counts()[1])
neg_weights = len(data['train'].to_pandas()) / (2 * data['train'].to_pandas().target.value_counts()[0])
```

The final weights are: 
```
POS_WEIGHT, NEG_WEIGHT = (1.1637114032405993, 0.8766697374481806)
```

Then, we compute the maximum length of the column text:
```python
# Number of Characters

> max_char=data['train'].to_pandas()['text'].str.len().max()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
max_char = data['train'].to_pandas()['text'].str.len().max()
```

# Number of Words
max_words = data['train'].to_pandas()['text'].str.split().str.len().max()
```

```
The maximum number of character is 152.

> The maximum number of word is 31.

Reviewer 2: Why do we need this information? We are later padding each batch.

We start by defining the RoBERTa dataloader: 

-  Load the tokenizer: 
```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer
roberta_tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(roberta_checkpoint, add_prefix_space=True)
```

- Define the preprocessing function for converting one row of the dataframe:
```python
def roberta_preprocessing_function(examples):
    return roberta_tokenizer(examples['text'], truncation=True, max_length=MAX_LEN)
```

By applying the preprocessing function to the first example of our training dataset, we can see that we have inputs ids and an attention mask:
```python
roberta_preprocessing_function(data['train'][0])
```
```
{'input_ids': [0, 127, 2373, 2490, 4, 1205, 640, 90, 4, 876, 73, 118, 725, 398, 13083, 329, 398, 119, 1343, 246, 2], 'attention_mask': [1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1]}
```

- Now, let's  apply the preprocessing function to the entire dataset: 

```python
col_to_delete = ['id', 'keyword','location', 'text']
# Apply the preprocessing function

> roberta_tokenized_datasets = data.map(roberta_preprocessing_function, batched=False)

Author: My bad, I used that for debugging and completely forgot to remove it from the final version. 
I just changed it

#Remove the undesired columns

> roberta_tokenized_datasets = roberta_tokenized_datasets.remove_columns(col_to_delete)

Author: The RoBERTa tokenizer has been trained to treat spaces as part of the tokens, so the first word of the sentence is encoded differently. Hugging Face's documentation recommends setting 'add_prefix_space' to 'True' to ensure that the first word is encoded correctly. To ensure consistent pre-processing for all three models, I have set the parameters to 'True'. I added the a note to the post.

#Set to torch format
roberta_tokenized_datasets.set_format("torch")
```

**Note:** we deleted the undesired columns from our data: id, keyword, location and text. We have deleted the text because we have already converted it into the inputs ids and the attention mask:

We can have a look into our tokenized training dataset:
```python
roberta_tokenized_datasets['train'][0]
```

```
{'label': tensor(0),
 'input_ids': tensor([    0,   127,  2373,  2490,     4,  1205,   640,    90,     4,   876,
            73,   118,   725,   398, 13083,   329,   398,   119,  1343,   246,
             2]),
 'attention_mask': tensor([1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1])}
```

- For generating the training batches, we also need to pad the rows of a given batch to the same maximum length, the maximum length found in this batch. For that, we will use the `DataCollatorWithPadding` class:

```python
# Data collator for padding a batch of examples to the maximum length seen in the batch
from transformers import DataCollatorWithPadding
roberta_data_collator = DataCollatorWithPadding(tokenizer=roberta_tokenizer)
```

> You can follow the same steps for preparing the data for Mistral 7B and Lllama 2 models: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can follow the same steps for preparing the data for Mistral 7B and Llama 2 models: 
```

**Note** that Llama 2 and Mistral 7B don't have a default `pad_token_id`. So, we use the `eos_token_id` for padding as well.

- Mistral 7B: 

```python
# Load Mistral 7B Tokenizer

> # Add prefix space to tokenize words into subwords

Reviewer 2: Why do we need this?

from transformers import AutoTokenizer, DataCollatorWithPadding
mistral_tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(mistral_checkpoint,  add_prefix_space=True)
mistral_tokenizer.pad_token_id = mistral_tokenizer.eos_token_id
mistral_tokenizer.pad_token = mistral_tokenizer.eos_token

def mistral_preprocessing_function(examples):
    return mistral_tokenizer(examples['text'], truncation=True, max_length=MAX_LEN)

mistral_tokenized_datasets = data.map(mistral_preprocessing_function, batched=False)
mistral_tokenized_datasets = mistral_tokenized_datasets.remove_columns(col_to_delete)
mistral_tokenized_datasets = mistral_tokenized_datasets.rename_column("target", "label")
mistral_tokenized_datasets.set_format("torch")

# Data collator for padding a batch of examples to the maximum length seen in the batch
mistral_data_collator = DataCollatorWithPadding(tokenizer=mistral_tokenizer)
```

- Llama 2:
```python
# Load Llama 2 Tokenizer
# Add prefix space to tokenize words into subwords
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, DataCollatorWithPadding

> llama_tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(llama_checkpoint,  add_prefix_space=True)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
llama_tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(llama_checkpoint, add_prefix_space=True)
```

llama_tokenizer.pad_token_id = llama_tokenizer.eos_token_id
llama_tokenizer.pad_token = llama_tokenizer.eos_token

def llama_preprocessing_function(examples):
    return llama_tokenizer(examples['text'], truncation=True, max_length=MAX_LEN)

llama_tokenized_datasets = data.map(llama_preprocessing_function, batched=False)
llama_tokenized_datasets = llama_tokenized_datasets.remove_columns(col_to_delete)
llama_tokenized_datasets = llama_tokenized_datasets.rename_column("target", "label")
llama_tokenized_datasets.set_format("torch")

# Data collator for padding a batch of examples to the maximum length seen in the batch
llama_data_collator = DataCollatorWithPadding(tokenizer=llama_tokenizer)
```

Now that we have prepared the tokenized datasets, the next section will showcase how to load the pre-trained LLMs checkpoints and how to set the LoRa weights. 

## Models

### RoBERTa

#### Load RoBERTA Checkpoints for the Classification Task

We load the pre-trained RoBERTa model with a sequence classification head using the Hugging Face `AutoModelForSequenceClassification` class:

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification 

> # Load a pre-trained model with a sequence classification header 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

It's exactly what's explained in the previous sentence.

roberta_model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(roberta_checkpoint, num_labels=2)
```

> ####  LoRa setup for RoBERTa classifier

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
####  LoRA setup for RoBERTa classifier
```

Could we use it consistently elsewhere, if possible?

We import LoRa configuration and set some parameters for RoBERTa classifier:
- TaskType: Sequence classification
- r(rank): Rank for our decomposition matrices
- lora_alpha: Alpha parameter to scale the learned weights. LoRA paper advises fixing alpha at 16
- lora_dropout: Dropout probability of the LoRA layers
- bias: Whether to add bias term to LoRa layers

> In the code below, we use the values recommended by the [Lora paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685).
> 
> Note that in this blog, we will perform a hyperparameter tuning with wandb.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code below uses the values recommended by the [Lora paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685). [Later in this post](#hyperparameter-tuning) we will perform hyperparameter tuning of these parameters using `wandb`.
```

```python
from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
roberta_peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS, r=2, lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0.1, bias="none",
)
roberta_model = get_peft_model(roberta_model, roberta_peft_config)
roberta_model.print_trainable_parameters()
```

> We can see below that the number of trainable parameters reprents only 0.64% of the RoBERTa model parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can see that the number of trainable parameters represents only 0.64% of the RoBERTa model parameters:
```

```
trainable params: 2,299,908 || all params: 356,610,052 || trainable%: 0.6449363911929212
```

### Mistral

#### Load checkpoints for the classfication model

Let's load the pre-trained Mistral-7B model with a sequence classification head:

```python

> from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification # Load a pre-trained model with a sequence classification header 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification
```

  pretrained_model_name_or_path=mistral_checkpoint,
  num_labels=2,
  device_map="auto"
)
```
For Mistral 7B, we have to add the padding token id as it is not defined by default.

```python
mistral_model.config.pad_token_id = mistral_model.config.eos_token_id
```

####  LoRa setup for Mistral 7B classifier

For Mistral 7B model, we need to specify the `target_modules` (the query and value vectors from the attention modules):

```python
from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType

mistral_peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS, r=2, lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0.1, bias="none", 
    target_modules=[
        "q_proj",
        "v_proj",
    ],
)

mistral_model = get_peft_model(mistral_model, mistral_peft_config)
mistral_model.print_trainable_parameters()
```

The number of trainable parameters reprents only 0.024% of the Mistral model parameters:
```
trainable params: 1,720,320 || all params: 7,112,380,416 || trainable%: 0.02418768259540745
```

### Llama 2

#### Load checkpoints for the classfication mode

Let's load pre-trained Llama 2 model with a sequence classification header. 

```python

> from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification # Load a pre-trained model with a sequence classification header 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification
```

```python
llama_model.config.pad_token_id = llama_model.config.eos_token_id
```

#### LoRa setup for Llama 2 classifier

We define LoRa for Llama 2 with the same parameters as for Mistral:

```python
from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
llama_peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS, r=16, lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0.05, bias="none", 
    target_modules=[
        "q_proj",
        "v_proj",  
    ],
)

llama_model = get_peft_model(llama_model, llama_peft_config)
llama_model.print_trainable_parameters()

```

The number of trainable parameters reprents only 0.12% of the Llama 2 model parameters:
```
trainable params: 8,404,992 || all params: 6,615,748,608 || trainable%: 0.1270452143516515
```

At this point, we defined the tokenized dataset for training as well as the LLMs setup with LoRa layers. The following section will introduce how to launch training using the HuggingFace `Trainer` class. 

## Setup the trainer

### Evaluation Metrics

First, we define the performance metrics we will use to compare the three models: F1 score, recall, precision and accuracy:

```python

> #Define evaluation metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

import evaluate
import numpy as np

> def compute_metrics(eval_pred):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

def compute_metrics(eval_pred):
```

    # All metrics are already predefined in the HF `evaluate` package
    precision_metric = evaluate.load("precision")
    recall_metric = evaluate.load("recall")
    f1_metric= evaluate.load("f1")
    accuracy_metric = evaluate.load("accuracy")

    logits, labels = eval_pred # eval_pred is the tuple of predictions and labels returned by the model
    predictions = np.argmax(logits, axis=-1)
    precision = precision_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["precision"]
    recall = recall_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["recall"]
    f1 = f1_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["f1"]
    accuracy = accuracy_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["accuracy"]
    # The trainer is expecting a dictionary where the keys are the metrics names and the values are the scores. 
    return {"precision": precision, "recall": recall, "f1-score": f1, 'accuracy': accuracy}
```

### Custom Trainer for Weighted Loss 

> As mentioned at the beginning of this post, we have an imbalanced distribution between positive and negative classes. We need to train our models with a weight cross-entropy loss to account for that. The `Trainer` class doesn't support providing a custom loss as it expects to get the loss directly from the model's outputs. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned at the beginning of this post, we have an imbalanced distribution between positive and negative classes. We need to train our models with a weighted cross-entropy loss to account for that. The `Trainer` class doesn't support providing a custom loss as it expects to get the loss directly from the model's outputs. 
```

So, we need to define our custom `WeightedCELossTrainer` that overrides the `compute_loss` method to calculate the weighted cross-entropy loss based on the model's predictions and the input labels: 

```python
from transformers import Trainer

> class WeightedCELossTrainer(Trainer):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

class WeightedCELossTrainer(Trainer):
```

lr = 1e-4
batch_size = 8
num_epochs = 5

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir="mistral-lora-token-classification",
    learning_rate=lr,
    lr_scheduler_type= "constant",
    warmup_ratio= 0.1,
    max_grad_norm= 0.3,
    per_device_train_batch_size=batch_size,
    per_device_eval_batch_size=batch_size,
    num_train_epochs=num_epochs,
    weight_decay=0.001,
    evaluation_strategy="epoch",
    save_strategy="epoch",
    load_best_model_at_end=True,
    report_to="wandb",
    fp16=True,
    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)

mistral_trainer = WeightedCELossTrainer(
    model=mistral_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=mistral_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)
```

**Note** that we needed to enable half-precision training by setting `fp16` to `True`. The main reason is that Mistral-7B is large, and its weights cannot fit into one GPU memory (48GB) with full float32 precision. 

#### Llama 2

Similar to Mistral 7B, we define the trainer as follows: 

```python
from transformers import TrainingArguments, Trainer

> mistral_model = mistral_model.cuda()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
llama_model = llama_model.cuda()
```

    fp16=True,
    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)

llama_trainer = WeightedCELossTrainer(
    model=llama_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=llama_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=llama_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=llama_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)
```

```python
lr = 2e-4
batch_size = 8
num_epochs = 5

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir="llama-lora-token-classification",
    learning_rate=lr,
    lr_scheduler_type= "constant",
    warmup_ratio= 0.1,
    max_grad_norm= 0.3,
    per_device_train_batch_size=batch_size,
    per_device_eval_batch_size=batch_size,
    num_train_epochs=num_epochs,
    weight_decay=0.001,
    evaluation_strategy="epoch",
    save_strategy="epoch",
    load_best_model_at_end=True,
    report_to="wandb",
    fp16=True,
    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)

```
Then, we define the Llama 2 trainer:

```python
llama_trainer = WeightedCELossTrainer(
    model=llama_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=llama_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=llama_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=llama_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)

> ```

Reviewer 2: This block appears to be repeated except the `lr` line.

Author: Thanks for the catch! I removed all the duplicated codes.

---
title: "Comparing the Performance of LLMs: A Deep Dive into Roberta, Llama, and Mistral for Disaster Tweets Analysis with Lora" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/Lora-for-sequence-classification-with-Roberta-Llama-Mistral/Thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: mehdiiraqui 
---
# Table of contents
<!-- TOC -->

> - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)

Author: Removed.

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Hardware used](#hardware-used)
- [Learnings](#learnings)
- [Pre-requisites](#pre-requisites)
- [Pre-trained Models](#pre-trained-models)
    - [RoBERTa](#roberta)
    - [Llama 2](#llama-2)
    - [Mistral 7B](#mistral-7b)
- [PEFT](#peft)
    - [LoRA](#lora)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Data preparation](#data-preparation)

>     - [A. Data loading](#a-data-loading)

Reviewer: instead of having numbered list in outline you can just do indents IMHO.

Author: Done. I removed the numbers.

- [Models](#models)
    - [RoBERTa](#roberta)
        - [A. Load checkpoints for the classfication model](#a-load-checkpoints-for-the-classfication-model)
        - [B.  LoRa setup for RoBERTa classifier](#b--lora-setup-for-roberta-classifier)
    - [Mistral](#mistral)
        - [A. Load checkpoints for the classfication model](#a-load-checkpoints-for-the-classfication-model)
        - [B.  LoRa setup for Mistral 7B classifier](#b--lora-setup-for-mistral-7b-classifier)
    - [Llama 2](#llama-2)
        - [A. Load checkpoints for the classfication mode](#a-load-checkpoints-for-the-classfication-mode)
        - [B. LoRa setup for Llama 2 classifier](#b-lora-setup-for-llama-2-classifier)
- [Setup the trainer](#setup-the-trainer)
    - [Evaluation Metrics](#evaluation-metrics)
    - [Custom Trainer for Weighted Loss](#custom-trainer-for-weighted-loss)
    - [Trainer Setup](#trainer-setup)
        - [A. RoBERTa](#a-roberta)
        - [B. Mistral 7B](#b-mistral-7b)
        - [C. Llama 2](#c-llama-2)
- [Hyper parameters tunning](#hyper-parameters-tunning)
- [Results](#results)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Resources](#resources)

<!-- /TOC -->
# Introduction 

> In the fast-moving world of Natural Language Processing (NLP), we often find ourselves comparing different language models to see which one works best for specific tasks. This blog post is all about comparing three models: RoBERTa, Mistral-7b, and Llama-2-7b. We used them to tackle a common problem - classifying tweets about disasters. It is important to note that Mistral and Llama are large models with 7 billion parameters, while RoBERTa-large (355M parameters) is a relatively smaller model used as a baseline for the comparison study.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the fast-moving world of Natural Language Processing (NLP), we often find ourselves comparing different language models to see which one works best for specific tasks. This blog post is all about comparing three models: RoBERTa, Mistral-7b, and Llama-2-7b. We used them to tackle a common problem - classifying tweets about disasters. It is important to note that Mistral and Llama are large models with 7 billion parameters. In contrast, RoBERTa-large (355M parameters) is a relatively smaller model used as a baseline for the comparison study.
```
Also maybe have a small note that they're essentially different type of models, i.e. one is used for understanding and other two are for generation (so it's a fair comparison) (because it's known that BERT-like models work better in these tasks in small scale)

> In this blog, we used PEFT (Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning) technique: Lora (Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models) for fine-tuning the pre-trained model on a sequence classification task. LoRa is designed to significantly reduce the number of trainable parameters while maintaning strong downstream task performance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog, we used PEFT (Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning) technique: LoRA (Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models) for fine-tuning the pre-trained model on the sequence classification task. LoRa is designed to significantly reduce the number of trainable parameters while maintaining strong downstream task performance. 
```

> The main objective of this blogpost is to implement LoRa fine-tuning for sequence classification task using three pre-trained models from HuggingFace: [meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf), [mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1), and [roberta-large](https://huggingface.co/roberta-large)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main objective of this blogpost is to implement LoRA fine-tuning for sequence classification task using three pre-trained models from Hugging Face: [meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-chat-hf), [mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1), and [roberta-large](https://huggingface.co/roberta-large)
```

> # Hardware used 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Hardware Used 
```
Maybe have some explanation, e.g. We used an A6000 with following specs

> # Hardware used 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Hardware Used
```

- Number of nodes: 1 
- Number of GPUs per node: 2
- GPU type: A6000 
- GPU memory: 48GB x2

> # Learnings 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Goals
```

> - Implement fine-tuning of pre-trained LLMs using LoRa PEFT methods (Lora).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implement fine-tuning of pre-trained LLMs using LoRA PEFT methods.
```

- Learn how to use the HuggingFace APIs ([transformers](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index), [peft](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/index), and [datasets](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/index)).

> - Setup the hyperparameters tuning and experiment logging using weights & biaises ([wandb](https://wandb.ai)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Setup the hyperparameter tuning and experiment logging using [Weights & Biases](https://wandb.ai)).
```

> # Pre-requisites 

Reviewer: Again, maybe add an explanation, also they're dependencies (when we say pre-requisites it sounds different)

Author: Modified to dependencies.

> # Pre-requisites 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Dependencies
```

```
datasets==2.14.5
evaluate==0.4.0 
peft==0.5.0
scikit-learn==1.3.1
torch==2.1.0

> transformers @ git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git@21dc5859421cf0d7d82d374b10f533611745a8c5

Author: Done. I unpined all packages and added the version in the wandb reports.

wandb==0.15.12  
```

> # Pre-trained Models
> ## [RoBERTa](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11692)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pre-trained Models

### [RoBERTa](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.11692)
```

> RoBERTa (Robustly Optimized BERT Approach) is an advanced variant of the BERT model proposed by Meta AI research team. It's a transformer-based language model using self-attention mechanisms for contextual word representations and trained with masked language model.

Author: Done.

The main differences of RoBERTa over BERT are:  
- No Next Sentence Prediction (NSP): RoBERTa removes NSP pre-training task, which predicts if document segments come from the same document. Authors show that removing this step has a little impact on downstream tasks and in some cases it even improves the performances.
- Larger Batches, Longer Sequences: While BERT's pre-training consists of 1 million steps with a batch size of 256 sequences, RoBERTa is trained with 125 steps involving 2,000 sequences, followed by 31,000 steps using batch sizes of 8,000 sequences.

> - Dynamic Masking: Unlike BERT's static masks, RoBERTa applies dynamic masks by generating new masked sequences at each training pass (epoch). This approach improves the performance across tasks as it can be seen as a data augmentation helping the model to learn from diverse contexts.

Reviewer 2: This is very cool, but in the interest of brevity maybe it suffices to say that RoBERTa is a popular model to fine-tune and appropriate as a baseline for our experiments. Again, we can link to the docs or the model card for people interested in learning more.

Author: Done.

> ## [Llama 2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09288)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [Llama 2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09288)
```

Author: Done.

Llama models, which stands for Large Language Model Meta AI, belong to the family of large language models (LLMs) introduced by Meta AI. The Llama models vary in size, with parameter counts ranging from 7 billion to 65 billion.

> Llama model is an auto-regressive language model, based on the transformer decoder architecture. To generate text, Llama processes a sequence of words as input and iteratively predicts the next token using a sliding window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Llama is an auto-regressive language model, based on the transformer decoder architecture. To generate text, Llama processes a sequence of words as input and iteratively predicts the next token using a sliding window.
```

> LLaMA's architecture is slightly different from models like GPT-3. For instance, Llama employs the SwiGLU activation function rather than ReLU and opts for rotary positional embeddings in place of absolute learnable positional embeddings. 

Reviewer 2: Just to point out the consistency between LLaMA and Llama. Meta used LLaMA for the first version, and "Llama 2" for the next one. Maybe we should do the same, or just use "Llama" everywhere.

Author: Done.

 
The recent released Llama 2 introduced architectural refinements to better leverage very long sequences by extending the context length (up to 4096 tokens) and using grouped-query attention (GQA) decoding. 

> ## [Mistral 7B](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06825)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### [Mistral 7B](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06825)
```

> Mistral models, specifically Mistral 7B v0.1 is the first Large Language Models (LLMs) introduced by Mistral AI. The model contains 7.3 billion parameters. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mistral 7B v0.1, with 7.3 billion parameters, is the first LLM introduced by Mistral AI.
```

> The main innovative techniques used in of Mistral 7B's architecture are: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main novel techniques used in of Mistral 7B's architecture are: 
```

> - Sliding Window Attention: Replace the full attention (square compute cost) with a sliding window based attention where each token can attend to at most 4,096 tokens from the previous layer (linear compute cost). This mechanism enables Mistral 7B to handle longer sequences, where higher layers can access to historical information beyond the window size of 4,096 tokens. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Sliding Window Attention: Replace the full attention (square compute cost) with a sliding window based attention where each token can attend to at most 4,096 tokens from the previous layer (linear compute cost). This mechanism enables Mistral 7B to handle longer sequences, where higher layers can access historical information beyond the window size of 4,096 tokens. 
```

> - Grouped-query Attention: used in Llama 2 as well, the technique optimizes the inference process (reduce processing time) by caching the key and value vectors for previous decoded tokens in the sequence.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Grouped-query Attention: used in Llama 2 as well, the technique optimizes the inference process (reduce processing time) by caching the key and value vectors for previously decoded tokens in the sequence.  
```

# PEFT

PEFT, Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning, is a collection of techniques (p-tuning, prefix-tuning, IA3, Adapters, and LoRa) designed to fine-tune large models using a much smalled set of training parameters while preserving the performance levels typically achieved through full fine-tuning. 

## [LoRA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685)

> LoRA, Low-Rank Adaptation, shares similarities with Adapter layers. However, its primary objective is to achieve a more substantial reduction in the count of adjustable parameters. LoRA's operation involves the alteration of the training and updating of the modifiable parameters within the neural network. 

Reviewer 2: I'd maybe just use LoRA as the section header to avoid too much nesting here. We can still introduce PEFT inside the section.

Author: Done.

![image](lora.png)

> 

Author: gaps removed.

# Setup

RoBERTa has a limitatiom of maximum sequence length of 512, so we set the `MAX_LEN=512` for all models to ensure a fair comparison.

```python
MAX_LEN = 512 
roberta_checkpoint = "roberta-large"
mistral_checkpoint = "mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1"
llama_checkpoint = "meta-llama/Llama-2-7b-hf"
```

# Data preparation

> ## A. Data loading

Reviewer 2: Same here, I'd maybe simplify the nesting structure and remove the short `Setup` section.

Author: The setup section is important as I define the checkpoints as maximum length.

```python
import pandas as pd
import os

> DATA_PATH = "~/peft_tweets/data"

Author: That's a great point, I am currently working on it.

> DATA_PATH = "~/peft_tweets/data"

Author: @merveenoyan, thank you for the suggestion. I pushed the dataset to HF and updated the data section accordingly.

> train_df=pd.read_csv(os.path.join(DATA_PATH, 'train.csv'))
> test_df=pd.read_csv(os.path.join(DATA_PATH, 'test.csv'))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
train_df = pd.read_csv(os.path.join(DATA_PATH, 'train.csv'))
test_df = pd.read_csv(os.path.join(DATA_PATH, 'test.csv'))
```

> test_df=pd.read_csv(os.path.join(DATA_PATH, 'test.csv'))

Author: Working on storing the data in HF datasets.

# dummy target column for merge test and train into one huggingface data
test_df['target'] = 0 
train_df.info()
test_df.info()
```

Here a quick overview of the data distribution:

- Train dataset

```<class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
RangeIndex: 7613 entries, 0 to 7612
Data columns (total 5 columns):
 #   Column    Non-Null Count  Dtype 
---  ------    --------------  ----- 
 0   id        7613 non-null   int64 
 1   keyword   7552 non-null   object
 2   location  5080 non-null   object
 3   text      7613 non-null   object
 4   target    7613 non-null   int64 
dtypes: int64(2), object(3)
memory usage: 297.5+ KB
```

- Test dataset
```
<class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
RangeIndex: 3263 entries, 0 to 3262
Data columns (total 5 columns):
 #   Column    Non-Null Count  Dtype 
---  ------    --------------  ----- 
 0   id        3263 non-null   int64 
 1   keyword   3237 non-null   object
 2   location  2158 non-null   object
 3   text      3263 non-null   object
 4   target    3263 non-null   int64 
dtypes: int64(2), object(3)
memory usage: 127.6+ KB
```

> - Target distribution in the train dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Target distribution in the train dataset**
```
Having these in bold would look better IMHO

```
target
0    4342
1    3271
Name: count, dtype: int64
```

As the classes are not balanced, we will compute the positive and negative weights and use them for loss calculation later:
```python
pos_weights = len(train_df) / (2 * train_df.target.value_counts()[1])
neg_weights = len(train_df) / (2 * train_df.target.value_counts()[0])
```

The final weights are: 
```
POS_WEIGHT, NEG_WEIGHT = (1.1637114032405993, 0.8766697374481806)
```

Then, we compute the maximum length of the column text:
```python
# Number of Characters
max_char=train_df['text'].str.len().max()
# Number of Words
max_words = train_df['text'].str.split().str.len().max()
```

```
The maximum number of character is 157.
The maximum number of word is 31.
```

Now, let's convert the dataframe into HuggingFace dataset format, split it into training and validation datasets, add the test dataset and save the three files:

```python
from datasets import Dataset

> #Convert the training dataframe to HuggingFace dataset

Reviewer 2: I'd remove these comments as you have already described the tasks in the info text, they can be distracting while reading code. If you do decide to keep them, please use a space after the comment :)

Author: Done.

mistral_tokenizer.pad_token = mistral_tokenizer.eos_token

def mistral_preprocessing_function(examples):
    return mistral_tokenizer(examples['text'], truncation=True, max_length=MAX_LEN)

mistral_tokenized_datasets = data.map(mistral_preprocessing_function, batched=False)
mistral_tokenized_datasets = mistral_tokenized_datasets.remove_columns(col_to_delete)
mistral_tokenized_datasets = mistral_tokenized_datasets.rename_column("target", "label")
mistral_tokenized_datasets.set_format("torch")

# Data collator for padding a batch of examples to the maximum length seen in the batch
mistral_data_collator = DataCollatorWithPadding(tokenizer=mistral_tokenizer)
```

- Llama 2:
```python
# Load Llama 2 Tokenizer
# Add prefix space to tokenize words into subwords
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, DataCollatorWithPadding
llama_tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(llama_checkpoint,  add_prefix_space=True)
llama_tokenizer.pad_token_id = llama_tokenizer.eos_token_id
llama_tokenizer.pad_token = llama_tokenizer.eos_token

def llama_preprocessing_function(examples):
    return llama_tokenizer(examples['text'], truncation=True, max_length=MAX_LEN)

> llama_tokenized_datasets = data.map(llama_preprocessing_function, batched=False)

Reviewer: Completely up to you: since you did the same thing above, you could refactor this part in one preprocessing function and only pass the dataset and tokenizer there instead to make it tidier.

Author: I think it is more easier to understand as it is.

Author: One clarification regarding my earlier point: I wrote standalone code for each model, allowing users interested in a specific model to follow the relevant section only.

llama_tokenized_datasets = llama_tokenized_datasets.remove_columns(col_to_delete)
llama_tokenized_datasets = llama_tokenized_datasets.rename_column("target", "label")
llama_tokenized_datasets.set_format("torch")

# Data collator for padding a batch of examples to the maximum length seen in the batch
llama_data_collator = DataCollatorWithPadding(tokenizer=llama_tokenizer)
```

Now that we have prepared the tokenized datasets, the next section will showcase how to load the pre-trained LLMs checkpoints and how to set the LoRa weights. 

# Models

## RoBERTa

### A. Load checkpoints for the classfication model  

> We load the pre-trained RoBERTa model with a sequence classification header using the HuggingFace `AutoModelForSequenceClassification` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We load the pre-trained RoBERTa model with a sequence classification head using the Hugging Face `AutoModelForSequenceClassification` class:
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification 
# Load a pre-trained model with a sequence classification header 
roberta_model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(roberta_checkpoint, num_labels=2)
```

### B.  LoRa setup for RoBERTa classifier

We import LoRa configuration and set some parameters for RoBERTa classifier:
- TaskType: Sequence classification
- r(rank): Rank for our decomposition matrices
- lora_alpha: Alpha parameter to scale the learned weights. LoRA paper advises fixing alpha at 16
- lora_dropout: Dropout probability of the LoRA layers
- bias: Whether to add bias term to LoRa layers

In the code below, we use the values recommended by the [Lora paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685).

> Note that in this blog, we will perform a hyperparameters tunning with wandb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in this blog, we will perform a hyperparameter tuning with wandb.
```

```python
from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
roberta_peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS, r=2, lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0.1, bias="none",
)
roberta_model = get_peft_model(roberta_model, roberta_peft_config)
roberta_model.print_trainable_parameters()
```

We can see below that the number of trainable parameters reprents only 0.64% of the RoBERTa model parameters:
```
trainable params: 2,299,908 || all params: 356,610,052 || trainable%: 0.6449363911929212
```

## Mistral

### A. Load checkpoints for the classfication model

>  Let's load pre-trained Mistral 7B model with a sequence classification header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's load the pre-trained Mistral-7B model with a sequence classification head:
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification # Load a pre-trained model with a sequence classification header 
import torch
mistral_model =  AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(
  pretrained_model_name_or_path=mistral_checkpoint,
  num_labels=2,
  device_map="auto"
)
```
For Mistral 7B, we have to add the padding token id as it is not defined by default.

```python
mistral_model.config.pad_token_id = mistral_model.config.eos_token_id
```

### B.  LoRa setup for Mistral 7B classifier

> For Mistral 7B model, we need to specify the target_modules (The query and value vectors from the attention modules):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Mistral 7B model, we need to specify the `target_modules` (the query and value vectors from the attention modules):
```

  num_labels=2,
  device_map="auto",
  offload_folder="offload",
  trust_remote_code=True
)
```

For Llama 2, we have to add the padding token id as it is not defined by default.

```python
llama_model.config.pad_token_id = llama_model.config.eos_token_id
```

### B. LoRa setup for Llama 2 classifier

We define LoRa for Llama 2 with the same parameters as for Mistral:

```python
from peft import get_peft_model, LoraConfig, TaskType
llama_peft_config = LoraConfig(
    task_type=TaskType.SEQ_CLS, r=16, lora_alpha=16, lora_dropout=0.05, bias="none", 
    target_modules=[
        "q_proj",
        "v_proj",  
    ],
)

llama_model = get_peft_model(llama_model, llama_peft_config)
llama_model.print_trainable_parameters()

```

The number of trainable parameters reprents only 0.12% of the Llama 2 model parameters:
```
trainable params: 8,404,992 || all params: 6,615,748,608 || trainable%: 0.1270452143516515
```

At this point, we defined the tokenized dataset for training as well as the LLMs setup with LoRa layers. The following section will introduce how to launch training using the HuggingFace `Trainer` class. 

# Setup the trainer

## Evaluation Metrics

> First, we define the perfomance metrics we will use to compare the three models: F1 score, recall, precision and accuracy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we define the performance metrics we will use to compare the three models: F1 score, recall, precision and accuracy:
```

```python
#Define evaluation metrics
import evaluate
import numpy as np
def compute_metrics(eval_pred):
    # All metrics are already predefined in the HF `evaluate` package
    precision_metric = evaluate.load("precision")
    recall_metric = evaluate.load("recall")
    f1_metric= evaluate.load("f1")
    accuracy_metric = evaluate.load("accuracy")

    logits, labels = eval_pred # eval_pred is the tuple of predictions and labels returned by the model
    predictions = np.argmax(logits, axis=-1)
    precision = precision_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["precision"]
    recall = recall_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["recall"]
    f1 = f1_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["f1"]
    accuracy = accuracy_metric.compute(predictions=predictions, references=labels)["accuracy"]
    # The trainer is expecting a dictionary where the keys are the metrics names and the values are the scores. 
    return {"precision": precision, "recall": recall, "f1-score": f1, 'accuracy': accuracy}
```

## Custom Trainer for Weighted Loss 

> As mentioned at the begining of this post, we have an imbalanced distribution between positive and negative classes. To account for that, we need to train our models with a weight cross-entropy loss. The `Trainer` class doesn't support providing a custom loss as it expects getting the loss directly from the model's outputs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned at the beginning of this post, we have an imbalanced distribution between positive and negative classes. We need to train our models with a weight cross-entropy loss to account for that. The `Trainer` class doesn't support providing a custom loss as it expects to get the loss directly from the model's outputs. 
```

So, we need to define our custom `WeightedCELossTrainer` that overrides the `compute_loss` method to calculate the weighted cross-entropy loss based on the model's predictions and the input labels: 

```python
class WeightedCELossTrainer(Trainer):
    def compute_loss(self, model, inputs, return_outputs=False):
        labels = inputs.pop("labels")
        # Get model's predictions
        outputs = model(**inputs)
        logits = outputs.get("logits")
        # compute custom loss
        loss_fct = torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss(weight=torch.tensor([neg_weights, pos_weights], device=model.device, dtype=logits.dtype))
        loss = loss_fct(logits.view(-1, self.model.config.num_labels), labels.view(-1))
        return (loss, outputs) if return_outputs else loss
```

## Trainer Setup

Let's set the training arguments and the trainer for the three models.

### A. RoBERTa 

> First important step is to move the models to the GPU device for training

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First important step is to move the models to the GPU device for training.
```

```python
roberta_model = roberta_model.cuda()
roberta_model.device()
```
It will print the following: 
```
device(type='cuda', index=0)
```

Then, we set the training arguments:

```python

> from transformers import TrainingArguments, Trainer

Reviewer: Why import `Trainer` here as you're not using it?

Author: I removed it.

lr = 1e-4
batch_size = 8
num_epochs = 5

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir="roberta-large-lora-token-classification",
    learning_rate=lr,
    lr_scheduler_type= "constant",
    warmup_ratio= 0.1,
    max_grad_norm= 0.3,
    per_device_train_batch_size=batch_size,
    per_device_eval_batch_size=batch_size,
    num_train_epochs=num_epochs,
    weight_decay=0.001,
    evaluation_strategy="epoch",
    save_strategy="epoch",
    load_best_model_at_end=True,
    report_to="wandb",
    fp16=False,
    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)
```

Finally, we define the RoBERTa trainer by providing the model, the training arguments and the tokenized datasets:

```python
roberta_trainer = WeightedCELossTrainer(
    model=mistral_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=mistral_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)
```

> ### B. Mistral 7B

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Mistral-7B
```

> Similar to RoBERTa, we define the trainer as follows: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to RoBERTa, we initialize the `WeightedBCELossTrainer` as follows: 
```

```python
from transformers import TrainingArguments, Trainer

mistral_model = mistral_model.cuda()

lr = 1e-4
batch_size = 8
num_epochs = 5

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir="mistral-lora-token-classification",
    learning_rate=lr,
    lr_scheduler_type= "constant",
    warmup_ratio= 0.1,
    max_grad_norm= 0.3,
    per_device_train_batch_size=batch_size,
    per_device_eval_batch_size=batch_size,
    num_train_epochs=num_epochs,
    weight_decay=0.001,
    evaluation_strategy="epoch",
    save_strategy="epoch",
    load_best_model_at_end=True,
    report_to="wandb",
    fp16=True,
    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)

mistral_trainer = WeightedBCELossTrainer(
    model=mistral_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=mistral_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)
```

> **Note** that we needed to enable half-precision training by setting `fp16` to `True`. The main reason is that Mistral 7B is large and its weights cannot fit into one GPU memory (48GB) with full float32 precision. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** that we needed to enable half-precision training by setting `fp16` to `True`. The main reason is that Mistral-7B is large, and its weights cannot fit into one GPU memory (48GB) with full float32 precision. 
```

### C. Llama 2

Similar to Mistral 7B, we define the trainer as follows: 

```python
from transformers import TrainingArguments, Trainer

> mistral_model = mistral_model.cuda()

Reviewer: Do you need to do this again? Did you meant to take LLaMA to GPU instead?

Author: I modified it to Llama.

    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)

mistral_trainer = WeightedBCELossTrainer(
    model=mistral_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=mistral_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=mistral_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)
```

```python
lr = 2e-4
batch_size = 8
num_epochs = 5

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    output_dir="llama-lora-token-classification",
    learning_rate=lr,
    lr_scheduler_type= "constant",
    warmup_ratio= 0.1,
    max_grad_norm= 0.3,
    per_device_train_batch_size=batch_size,
    per_device_eval_batch_size=batch_size,
    num_train_epochs=num_epochs,
    weight_decay=0.001,
    evaluation_strategy="epoch",
    save_strategy="epoch",
    load_best_model_at_end=True,
    report_to="wandb",
    fp16=True,
    gradient_checkpointing=True,
)

```
Then, we define the Llama 2 trainer:

```python
llama_trainer = WeightedBCELossTrainer(
    model=llama_model,
    args=training_args,
    train_dataset=llama_tokenized_datasets['train'],
    eval_dataset=llama_tokenized_datasets["val"],
    data_collator=llama_data_collator,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
)
```

> # Hyper parameters tunning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Hyperparameter Tuning
```

> We have used Wandb sweeps API to run hyperparameter tunning with a bayesian search strategy (30 runs). The hyper parameters tunned are :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have used Wandb Sweep API to run hyperparameter tunning with Bayesian search strategy (30 runs). The hyperparameters tuned are the following.
```
Maybe you could give a link to Sweep API.
